the big problem during the rebellion was
Eva's no health care period that existed
in the community the african-american
students desirous of entering into the
medical profession were being turned
away from colleges across country I
remember growing up in inner-city
Philadelphia and telling people I wanted
to be a doctor and I was laughed at why
can't we have top health care and what's
why can't we have Harvard right here
charged through University of Medicine
and science who was born out of the
ashes of the Watts Riots because of the
critical shortage of doctors in
south-central Los Angeles it was about
the community it was about saving lives
you get some of the best people whether
it was Mitchell Spellman or dr. Haynes
these people gave up prestigious
university to come here because it was
something important Lily and lovely NOLA
Carter Edna LOI
they were on the battlefield they were
gonna make this happen at that time we
had a doctor Thatcher
he was the first Dean it became the
Surgeon General those founders those
doctors were the heroes their passion
their commitment their resolve had to be
compelling to operate in the most humble
of academic environments and trailers
set on a vacant lot to address this huge
need
those suitors I go to gende to have a
similar desire as a way to serve the
community underserved community these
are people who get into UCLA and who
expressly say that they want to do their
training in Charles trip we have over
1700 applications for 24 spots so it's a
top ten some would say top 5 medical
school in America what we are doing is
not just teaching the future providers
of health care we're really working with
communities so that communities can
actually heal themselves and that's what
we teach our doctors to do when a
patient comes in to see you and there's
certain problems going you can
understand what's going on behind those
problems in our clinic rotations we
collect data from our patients you focus
on where they live you focus on is this
person able to afford their medicine if
you can't treat the person as a whole
then you're just throwing medicine at an
illness that will never go away there's
all types of value and experiences in
members of the community something
simple is why the patient didn't keep
their appointment or why they're afraid
to take their medications but the
community come and tell us what they
know that's the exciting part of drew
the community faculty track I see is the
future for health and health care in
this country many of my NIH projects are
in fact community-based participatory
research for me it's really exciting
that we're at the forefront of putting
something like this together what we've
actually developed in South Los Angeles
we've also used as models abroad so we
have large programs in Angola very large
program in Rwanda in Jamaica and in
Belize using community and working with
community to build good health services
well I think the future is bright there
is a great opportunity because there's
going to be a new hospital I'm looking
forward to our nursing school taking it
up one notch higher we're starting
officially this fall with our first
cohort of students the building's
beautiful the facilities excellent and
there's every reason to believe it'll be
highly successful Saturday science is a
powerful program that has helped many
children form their early opinions about
science and medicine they come in with
straight C's buy-in of the year they're
making straight A's
90% end up going to college fueling a
pipeline in terms of providing a conduit
for young african-american and Latino
students to move into the health
profession by being on that campus and
seeing others that look like them that
have been able to accomplish these goals
I thought that was a big part of it for
me growing up I went ahead and started
Medical School in 2003 and graduating
2007 I think the hope that I was given
in starting there and going on and
beginning my career in medicine is the
same level of hope I like to give to the
students I hope that it gets the
recognition that it deserves that in
University does something for this
entire country that very few
universities are doing we don't want
just to have physicians of all different
nationalities but to have physicians
that will make a difference in the world
excellence with respect and compassion
with a connection to one's community to
reduce the health disparities that
currently exist through education
through research through mobilizing the
community and that CD you will play a
major role in doing that there are
little David fighting a really big
battle and I think it's that kind of
dedication and sends a purpose that
makes it unique
you